Content update - How to create a custom routed event (user story 1878475) (#1289)
dotnet/docs-desktop: dotnet-desktop-guide/net/wpf/events/how-to-create-a-custom-routed-event.md

1. Define CLR [add](<xref:System.Windows.UIElement.AddHandler%2A>) and [remove](<xref:System.Windows.UIElement.RemoveHandler%2A>) event accessors. Without CLR event accessors, you'll only be able to add or remove event handlers through direct calls to the <xref:System.Windows.UIElement.AddHandler%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Windows.UIElement.RemoveHandler%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods. With CLR event accessors, you gain these event handler assignment mechanisms:

    - For Extensible Application Markup Language (XAML), you can use attribute syntax to add event handlers.
    - For C#, you can use the `+=` and `-=` operators to add or remove event handlers.
    - For VB, you can use the [AddHandler](/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/statements/addhandler-statement) and [RemoveHandler](/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/statements/removehandler-statement) statements to add or remove event handlers.

1. Add custom logic for triggering your routed event. For example, your logic might trigger the event based on user-input and application state.

## Example

> The following example implements the `CustomButton` class in a custom control library. The `CustomButton` class, which derives from <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Button>:

Reviewer: Is there a reason why this is a custom control library? It's simpler to have it all in a single project.

Author: The framework version of this article says:

`Note also that this example basically implements an entire subclass of Button; that subclass is built as a separate assembly and then instantiated as a custom class on a separate XAML page. This is to illustrate the concept that subclassed controls can be inserted into trees composed of other controls, and that in this situation, custom events on these controls have the very same event routing capabilities as any native XAML element does. `

Someone implementing a custom control that way might benefit, although it adds to the complexity of the example as you mentioned. What's your preference?

When `CustomButton` is clicked:

1. The `ConditionalClick` routed event is raised on `CustomButton`.
1. The `Handler_ConditionalClick` event handler assigned to `CustomButton` is triggered.
1. The `ConditionalClick` routed event traverses up the element tree to `StackPanel1`.
1. The `Handler_ConditionalClick` event handler assigned to `StackPanel1` is triggered.
1. The `ConditionalClick` routed event continues up the element tree potentially triggering other `ConditionalClick` event handlers assigned to other traversed elements.

The `Handler_ConditionalClick` event handler obtains the following information about the event that triggered it:

- The [sender](xref:System.Windows.RoutedEventHandler) object, which is the element that the event handler is assigned to. The `sender` will be `CustomButton` the first time the handler runs, and `StackPanel1` the second time.
- The <xref:System.Windows.RoutedEventArgs.Source?displayProperty=nameWithType> object, which is the element that originally raised the event. In this example, the `Source` is always `CustomButton`.

> [!NOTE]

> > A key difference between a routed event and a CLR event is that a routed event traverses the element tree, whereas a CLR event occurs only on the `sender`. As a result, a routed event `sender` can be any traversed element in the element tree.

Reviewer: This note sounds a little odd to me, how about this?
```suggestion
> A key difference between a routed event and a CLR event is that a routed event traverses the element tree, looking for handlers, whereas a CLR event is created by a source object and handled by an event subscriber. As a result, a routed event `sender` can be any traversed element in the element tree.
```
